---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/Capture2.PNG
title: Wave Energy Conversion
permalink: projects/waveconversion
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2015-12-15
labels:
  - Javascript
  - Node red
  - Raspberry Pi
  - Electromagnetic
  - Arduino
summary: Converting the energy in ocean waves into usable electric power that can be used to charge drones.
---
This project is a collaboration between REDlab members and graduate student Nicholas Ulm.  He presented to us his idea of creating a full sized buoy that directs waves in the ocean into it's main chamber.  The main chamber is shaped like a large cylinder but the water does not fill it entirely.  The ocean waves that enter the chamber cause the air inside the chamber to pressurize and attempt to escape through the top of the chamber.  We then place a turbine at the top of the chamber.  In our case we are using a turbo charger normally used on cars since it's design is airtight and is capable of spinning up to very high speeds.  The shaft of the turbine is connected to a generator and generates energy.  We are using a car alternator for this as a commercial alternator is very refined in it's design and for our project specifically we simply want to prove a concept.

The buoy has a data gathering device attached to it to monitor the moment of the buoy in relation to it's power generation.  We monitor variables such as acceleration in different directions, pressure in the chamber as well as ambient pressure, and distance between the turbine and surface of the water in the chamber.

Once we proved the device can generate power, we apply that concept to inductively charge drones.  These drones can be used to observe coastal areas for both security and scientific purposes.  The concept of inductively charging was used just to prove that the power generated by the buoy is usable and significant.
