---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why Software Engineering?
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2015-08-26
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

When I was in high school I really did not know what I wanted to do in college and for the rest of my life.  I originally wanted to go into journalism and create news stories because I felt I had a strong passion for that.  However I took the Computer Science course at Kamehameha Schools my senior year and felt that I really understood the software engineering process and mindset.  After I took that course I realized I wanted to go into engineering and make something of my life.  I had a dream to put my name on a major product that would further technology as we know it.

In order to achieve this goal I made the decision to go into computer engineering.  When I began in college as a computer engineer student I had no idea the sheer amount of information I would learn in both computer hardware and software.  Throughout all of what i've learned since the start of my journey in software engineering, I enjoy the challenge and satisfaction of solving said challenges the most.  I enjoy finding problems that were either not solved or roughly solved and attempt to solve them combining both the techniques I've learned in both engineering and computer science.  I feel that being a computer engineer combines both of the technologies to solve problems that could normally not be solved using just one of either sets of techniques.  

I'd like to learn more and more in software engineering specifically different languages I can use such as Javascript, C#, Meteor, and perhaps other scripting languages like Ruby.  Other than those languages, I'd also like to learn more about frameworks that I would add to my resume and make me more valuable as an employee and as a person as well.  
